Setting the git user name : git config --global user.name "Naveen S S"
Setting the git gmail     : git config --global user.email "ssnaveen696@gmail.com"

Git Workflow Components (Git Architecture): 
1. Working Directory – The project folder where you create and modify files before Git tracks them (seen in VS Code).
2. Staging Area (Index) – The temporary area where selected changes are prepared for the next commit using commands like [ git add ].
3. Local Repository – The Git database stored in the .git folder on your computer where commits are saved, usually on a branch like main.
4. Remote Repository –The online repository (GitHub) connected to your local repo via a remote name like origin, containing branches such as origin/main.

Often Used Git setup Command:
echo "# GIT_GITHUB_learning" >> README.md : Creates a README.md file and writes the project title into it.
git init : Initializes a new Git repository by creating the hidden .git directory.
git add README.md : Adds the README.md file to the staging area for the next commit.
git commit -m "first commit" : Saves the staged changes as the first commit in the local repository.
git branch -M main : Renames the current branch to main (force rename if needed).
git remote add origin https://github.com/ssnaveenss/GIT_GITHUB_learning.git : Connects the local repository(aka main) to the GitHub repository(aka remote repo) named origin.
git push -u origin main : Pushes the local main branch to the remote repository (origin) and sets origin/main as the *upstream* so future pushes and pulls can be done simply using [ git push or git pull ] without specifying origin and main again.

Fundamental Git Commands:
1. git init : Initializes a new Git repository by creating the .git folder.
2. git clone <repo_url> : Creates a local copy of an existing remote repository.
3. git status : Shows the current state of files (modified, staged, untracked).
4. git add <file> : Adds a specific file to the staging area.
5. git add . : Adds all modified and new files to the staging area.
6. git commit -m "message" : Saves staged changes as a commit in the local repository.
7. git log : Displays the history of commits.
8. git diff : Shows differences between file changes and the last commit.
9. git branch : Lists all branches in the repository.
10. git branch <branch_name> : Creates a new branch.
11. git switch <branch_name> : Switches to another branch.
12. git checkout <branch_name> : Switches branches or restores files (older command).
13. git merge <branch_name> : Combines another branch into the current branch.
14. git remote -v : Displays the remote repositories connected to the project.
15. git remote add origin <repo_url> : Links the local repository to a remote repository.
16. git push : Uploads commits from the local repository to the remote repository.
17. git push -u origin main : Pushes the branch and sets upstream tracking.
18. git pull : Fetches and merges updates from the remote repository.
19. git fetch : Downloads updates from the remote repository without merging.
20. git reset : Unstages files or moves the repository to a previous commit.

Branching and merging the branches:
(GIT BRANCH → WORK → MERGE WORKFLOW)

STEP 1 — Check current branch
git branch
: Lists all branches and shows the current active branch.

STEP 2 — Create a new branch
git branch Branch-1
: Creates a new branch named Branch-1 from the current branch.

STEP 3 — Switch to the new branch
git switch Branch-1
: Moves your working environment to Branch-1.

STEP 4 — Make changes in the branch
(edit files in VS Code)
: Modify or create files for the new feature.

STEP 5 — Stage the changes
git add .
: Adds all modified files to the staging area.

STEP 6 — Commit the changes
git commit -m "Added feature in Branch-1"
: Saves the changes in Branch-1.

STEP 7 — Push the branch to GitHub
git push -u origin Branch-1
: Uploads Branch-1 to the remote repository and sets upstream tracking.

STEP 8 — Switch back to main branch
git switch main
: Returns to the main branch.

STEP 9 — Merge the feature branch
git merge Branch-1
: Combines changes from Branch-1 into main.

STEP 10 — Push updated main branch
git push
: Uploads the merged changes to GitHub.